---
title: starting alien mouth
layout: page
permalink: /blog/starting-alien-mouth/
description: I blabber a little about why and how Alien Mouth came into existence.
---

I'm currently the Editor of [Alien Mouth](http://alienmouth.com/ "Alien Mouth") and before that I was the Editor of a thing called [Mostly Water](http://intheendprettymucheverythingismostlywater.com/ "Mostly Water") (though the actual name was quite a bit longer).  
  
Mostly Water shut down in May after a dicussion between myself and the Managing Editor, [James Leaf](http://jamesleaf.tumblr.com). The number of submissions we were recieving was falling, we were sending out more contributor copies than copies ordered, and we no longer had much local interest or submission. The original "mission" of the journal was this: we make a monthly print magazine thing, distribute it for free in the growing art community of Bryan, TX and sell it to anyone outside of Byran. The idea is that we are a) exposing writers and artists from outside of Bryan to that community and b) getting the work of Bryan writers and artists out into the indie lit world we were already plugged into online, etc...  
  
After seven issues (this seems like so few in retrospect, but then again that's seven months) this wasn't working out. In addition, James was leaving the country for the summmer and I was heading up to Massachusetts to intern at [Transom](http://transom.org "Transom"). Being not in Bryan there wasn't much of a way, or reason, to continue, especially given that we were doing physical releases at the time. Mostly Water went "on hold," but about a month into that hold it was clear (to me at least) that it wasn't coming back.  
  
And then I got restless.  
  
I messaged James and said we should change Mostly Water, do away with the paragraph long name (the title I suggested at the time was "W A T E R"), move to online distribution (I've long been in love with [Bear Parade](http://bearparade.com) and wanted to copy everything Gene Morgan had done with that), and do a quarterly print edition. We realized this wasn't an evolution for Mostly Water, it was a whole new thing.  
  
Mostly Water was an "imprint" (and I use that term so lightly that it should barely even appear on the page) of the "press" (again lightly) we started under the name Alien Mouth (we put out my chapbook, and a mini-chap by [William James](http://www.williamjamespoetry.com/), I should also mention that the name was James's idea). We chose to make it all just one thing. And so Alien Mout (the journal) was born.  
  
Alien Mouth doesn't have any real "goals" per se. But if I had to layout a framework for how I'm approaching this, it's that we're just trying to have fun and make good stuff. I had a coversation recently with a friend that expressed worry over me abandoning things that aren't very immediately successful, citing Mostly Water and my disappointment with declining interest. But this isn't nessecarily what I'm thinking about when I move from project to project. I'm not interested in building or making projects "successful" in the strictest sense. Obviously, a wider readership, more submissions, attention, and propogating art is what we would like but what I'm interested in is having fun, throwing together stuff that showcases what I love, what I think is important. The goal isn't to build something rival to the journals that already exist, there are already enough lit journals in the world and they aren't Alien Mouth's competition. To me what we're doing with Alien Mouth isn't about Alien Mouth, it's about the people we're publishing and the people we're reaching. It's about the art that gets a home and the ideas that get to spread. We're a journal about our artists, we're not about being a journal. To me, if Alien Mouth, like Mostly Water, disappears from the world in six months, that's okay, sure it will be a little sad but I'm not concerned. What I'm concerned about is making it right now, for what it needs to be, for the space that the wonderful people supporing us have allowed us to have. Alien Mouth is about art in the present, with no concern for where we go in the future, so long as it serves what needs to be done at that point. 