---
title: "Beyond Audio Form"
layout: post
permalink: /beyond/
category: drafts
date: 2017-03-06 10:00:00
excerpt: "How can we use the internet to explore the sonic world?"
---

Conventional thinking in media studies asks us to consider medium—notably mediums of radio, television, and the internet—as discrete. Each space operates in its own way, with distinct mechanisms and constituent operating ideologies, and we build our understandings of media through what we consider to be unique of their medium. Yet such thought looks past the operating procedures given to us by theorists in the late twentieth century (namely the post-structuralists)—that we could look past discrete and binary thinking, opening our understandings towards multiplicity and a networked ontology. 

Discrete thinking, instead of helping us understand and describe media effects, limits our understanding of a particular medium’s mechanics, relegating it to the traditions of its founding practitioners. We see this most readily in institutionalized knowledge. What becomes the standard for a medium—especially in mass, broadcast mediums—moves towards a being a method of exclusion, limiting and structuring thought and practice in a particular field, creating barriers between mediums, and working against any widespread habit of art practice. This works through both internal and external and discourses.

And the state of things remains—I will not pretend to have developed any thought which could solve reproductive ideologies. However, I will issue a call to action in my own field: podcasting. 

Podcasting, ironically, separates out into somewhat of a binary spectrum. On one end there is a somewhat less structured version of public radio, on the other, something organic to podcasting resembling talk radio. Both of the two completely fail to recognize the power of the medium. Podcasting and its ancillary technologies offer a radical new perspective on audio. Instead of being confined to radio waves—a reality that gave rise to radio’s conventions and habits—or being trapped in physical media, we can now distribute sound in a hybrid fashion, allowing a freedom in form (we are no longer tied to the conventions nor the politics and regulation of radio) while maintaining the organic discovery of material embedded in the technology of sending vibrations into the air, randomly captured and reproduced by its receiver. Just as the internet can render a textual experience, it can render a sonic one as well. 

The internet and podcasting give potential for a sonic experience unlike any in human history. We are offered an avenue to do anything we please with sound, to distribute it in any method and with any structuring thought available. Yet, networked audio sounds like it was recorded off of the airwaves and then copied onto the internet, and as more audio production occurs and becomes institutionalized, a grammar of intelligibility is developing, one not too far from the radio of the past. I would label this a failure. 

Just as we have used literature and film to explore what texts mean, how we relate to them, and how they act upon us, we should use podcasting, or networked sound, to explore the same questions. Too often we place the sonic world as supplementary to the visual world, but the internet offers a space in which to challenge this habit. Instead of repeating what radio allowed us to do, we can instead interrogate sonic experience through a variety of new experimental frameworks and distribution platforms. We can, and should, make content that arrives at a listener organically and builds sonic experience in front of them, creating a new and meaningful interaction with sound, beyond what has come before. 