---
title: "S-Town: Homage or Exploit?"
layout: post
permalink: /stown/
category: drafts
date: 2017-04-05 10:00:00
excerpt: "Even if it is a work about understanding someone else’s humanity, is this endeavor permissible without the subject’s ultimate consent?"
---

On March 28th, podcasting giant Serial from radio giant This American Life launched a new podcast—S-Town, a venture which has now achieved popularity beyond what Serial was ever able to do. Of course, all of the typical coastal-elite publications loved it. Glowing reviews popped up in Vulture, The New York Times, The Atlantic, and countless other publications. But only one venue, Vox.com, noticed the troubling aspects of S-Town, going so far as to claim “it probably shouldn’t have been made” in the headline of [a piece by Aja Romano](www.vox.com/culture/2017/3/30/15084224/s-town-review-controversial-podcast-privacy).

Romano’s piece focuses in on privacy as the central concern with S-Town’s ethics. Large parts of S-Town are focused on the main subject’s sexuality, an aspect of his life he mostly kept quiet in his small Alabama town. Journalism ethics would typically tell us to shut up about these things if we don’t have full and clear permission to divulge them, but S-Town wanders a fine line. Discussions of this character’s private life are nested in compassion and empathy, so much so that any listener could see how the discussion could be warranted. But there are further concerns. S-Town deals with money, racism, suicide, and much more. All of these are potential ethical landmines. 

But central to this conversation, at least in my opinion, is one question: why did this need to be made? As far as I can tell, S-Town exists because the reporter, Brian Reed, had such a personal connection to his subject. The podcast reads as a testament to empathy and understanding, and if we’re comfortable with that justification, maybe it’s alright to jump so deeply into a character with the same unclear pretense as Reed does. But even with this justification, it’s hard to read S-Town as anything but ultimately exploitative. Even if it is a work about understanding someone else’s humanity, is this endeavor permissible without the subject’s ultimate consent?
