---
title: "Practice"
layout: post
permalink: /practice-dear/
category: drafts
date: 2017-04-11 10:00:00
excerpt: "What I've learned from Dear."
---

This year my friend [Brie Ripley](http://cargocollective.com/brieripley) and I began sending letters to one another.

Okay, that’s a simplification. We started a podcast centered around being pen pals— each episode is an audio letter, a short little update/documentary about ourselves, meant for the other person to hear. It’s called _[Dear](http://soundcloud.com/dearpodcast)_.

Dear has turned into a proving ground for Brie and I. Each week we get to indulge a small bit of what we’re interested in doing with sound, something outside of what we get to do in our day jobs. It’s a great practice, and I’ve learned a great deal from the five episodes I’ve produced so far. The biggest take away? Everything, and I mean everything, in audio is constructed.

I quickly noticed that it was hard to think of topics for _[Dear](http://soundcloud.com/dearpodcast)_, and that’s because, well, I’m not that interesting, and life doesn’t happen in neat little narrative arcs. The reason the most popular audio shows have great, interesting stories is because those teams are super talented in constructing those stories. If I want a story to succeed, I have to make the story so it happens that way. Even if a story is non-fictional, we have to add an element of construction in order to tell it. I have to put myself in situations to get sound. I have to ask the write questions. For any emotional moment, I have to get the timing, timbre, and delivery just right. Otherwise, it fails. 

I’m sure this is no shock to most of anyone who produces content like this, but it’s become super helpful to keep in mind.
